---
title: Hacking as Art
description: Appreciating beauty, and hacking as an artform.
tags:
- hacking
- art
- beauty
---

# Hacking as Art

Reading "Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance", p.98:

 > The selfish climber does it to prove themselves. The selfless climber
 > does it to appreciate the beauty of every step, of every leaf and
 > moment. They do it in tune with the moutain and the moment.

I'm a computer hacker. 

I always thought hacking was purely a technical challenge, a matter of
cold knowledge and experience. Then it became a job, what pays the bills
and gives me some form of satisfaction. 

But that's not the whole picture. 

I came to the realisation that deep down, what I want to do, what drives
me, is appreciation of beauty. 

I admire hacking in its purest form. When I stumble upon a masterpiece -
someone's clever piece of work - I strive to appreciate its beauty; I
must have enough knowledge to understand its cleverness, and I will use
this newly acquired knowledge for my own creations.

I don't want to make a generalisation; I don't want to say, "true
hackers are those who-" and start drawing circles and putting up
barriers and complain about what others don't do. However, I know what
works forme - and what drives me is the joy of overcoming barriers, the sense of
achievement of an exploit well done, of controlling execution, of
bending a program to do something powerful that was not in its original
designer's mind. 

The ultimate goal is the exploit, but the real beauty is in the
creation, and like a selfless climber, the contemplation of each step of
the journey. 

In Neuromancer, William Gibson defines the protagonist as an "artiste".
This was before hacking became a definition.

I am an artist. My art is creation of solutions to interesting problems.
I seek beauty; be it the logical beauty of code, or cleverness of
reasoning, or quality of exploitation. I can't do what I don't
understand, because to me, understanding is searching for meaning.

Hacking is art, my art.

---

{% for tag in page.tags %}
    {{ tag }}
{% endfor %}
